

%

Lisp is worth learning for the profound enlightenment experience you will have
when you finally get it; that experience will make you a better programmer for
the rest of your days, even if you never actually use Lisp itself a lot.
-- Eric Raymond

%

Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication. -- Leonardo da Vinci
(from Core Principles of the Arch Linux philosophy)

%

I believe that the time is ripe for significantly better documentation of
programs, and that we can best achieve this by considering programs to be works
of literature. Hence, my title: "Literate Programming." -- Donald Knuth

%

Let us change our traditional attitude to the construction of programs: Instead
of imagining that our main task is to instruct a computer what to do, let us
concentrate rather on explaining to human beings what we want a computer to do.
-- Donald Knuth

%

The practitioner of literate programming can be regarded as an essayist, whose
main concern is with exposition and excellence of style. Such an author, with
thesaurus in hand, chooses the names of variables carefully and explains what
each variable means.  -- Donald Knuth

%

The literate programmer strives for a program that is comprehensible because
its concepts have been introduced in an order that is best for human
understanding, using a mixture of formal and informal methods that reinforce
each other. - Donald Knuth

%

A traditional computer program consists of a text file containing program code.
Scattered in amongst the program code are comments which describe the various
parts of the code. In literate programming the emphasis is reversed. Instead of
writing code containing documentation, the literate programmer writes
documentation containing code. -- Ross Williams

%

We were after the C++ programmers. We managed to drag a lot of them about
halfway to Lisp. -- Guy Steele (co-author of the Java spec)

%

We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature
optimization is the root of all evil. -- Donald Knuth
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Program_optimization

%


